The 2024–25 Premier League was the 33rd season of the Premier League and the 126th season of top-flight English football overall. Manchester City entered the season as four-time defending champions, but were dethroned by Liverpool, who emerged as Premier League winners with four games to spare, equalling Manchester United's record of 20 English league titles.
The fixtures were released on 18 June 2024, consisting of 33 weekend rounds, four midweek rounds, and one Bank Holiday matchweek.
The summer transfer window opened on 14 June 2024 and closed at 23:00 BST on 30 August 2024. The winter window opened on 1 January 2025 and closed at 23:00 GMT on 3 February 2025. This was also the last season the Nike sponsor match ball for the top flight was used; Puma became the official ball supplier of the top flight starting from the 2025–26 season.

Summary
The first managerial departure of the season came on 28 October 2024, when Manchester United sacked Erik ten Hag following a 2–1 defeat to West Ham United. The club sat in 14th place after nine games, having already recorded their fourth defeat of the season. Ruben Amorim was announced as his successor on 1 November and officially took charge on 11 November.  
The second managerial departure occurred on 24 November, when Leicester City sacked Steve Cooper following a 2–1 home loss to Chelsea. The club sat in 16th place at the time and one point above the relegation zone, having already suffered their sixth loss of the season and having managed only two wins from 12 games. On 29 November, Leicester City announced the appointment of Ruud van Nistelrooy on a three-year contract.
Wolverhampton Wanderers dismissed head coach Gary O'Neil on 15 December after a 2–1 home defeat to Ipswich Town. It was their 11th loss in 16 games; the club was 19th in the table, four points from safety, with only two wins. He was replaced by Vitor Pereira. On the same day, bottom side Southampton sacked Russell Martin immediately after a 5–0 home defeat to Tottenham Hotspur. He was replaced by Ivan Jurić.
On 8 January 2025, West Ham United sacked Julen Lopetegui with the club sitting in 14th place. His final match in charge was a 4–1 away defeat to Manchester City. Graham Potter was confirmed as his replacement on 9 January. On the same day, Everton sacked Sean Dyche just hours before their FA Cup match. His last match was a 1–0 away defeat to Bournemouth, with the club sitting in 16th place. On 11 January, David Moyes was confirmed as his replacement, returning to the club 12 years after leaving in 2013 to replace the retiring Sir Alex Ferguson at Manchester United.
Southampton became the first team relegated to the EFL Championship on 6 April, after just one year in the top flight, following a 3–1 defeat away to Tottenham Hotspur. With only 10 points from 31 games, they became the first team in Premier League history to go down with seven matches left to play, breaking the record shared by Derby County in 2007–08, Huddersfield Town in 2018–19 and Sheffield United in 2020–21, who were all relegated with six matches remaining. The next day, the club announced that Ivan Jurić had left his role as manager after just 108 days in charge, having won only two games during his spell (one in the Premier League and one in the FA Cup). Simon Rusk took over as interim until the end of the season with Southampton midfielder Adam Lallana becoming Rusk's assistant.
Leicester City became the second team to be relegated on 20 April after a 1–0 defeat at home to Liverpool, which extended their record for most consecutive goalless home matches, making them the first club in top-flight history to fail to score in nine consecutive home matches. Six days later, Ipswich Town joined them to become the third and final team relegated, after a 3–0 loss to Newcastle United, meaning that for the second season in a row, all three promoted teams went straight back down. It was only the third time in English top flight history in which this has happened, the first being in 1997–98. This also marked the first time in the Premier League era that all three relegated teams had been confirmed with more than four games to play, breaking the record of more than two games remaining, set in the 2020–21 season.
On 27 April, Liverpool beat Tottenham Hotspur 5–1 at Anfield to secure their second Premier League title with four games remaining, tying the record for total English league titles of 20 with rivals Manchester United.
On 18 May, and after 133 years, Goodison Park hosted its final Everton game, with the club moving to their new home (the Hill Dickinson Stadium), from the 2025–26 season. Everton eased to a 2–0 win over Southampton with Iliman Ndiaye scoring both goals, sealing his place in history as the last goalscorer at the stadium. From the 2025–26 season, Goodison Park became the permanent home for Everton Women's team and the largest dedicated women's football stadium in England.
On 25 May, Liverpool were presented with the Premier League trophy after a 1–1 draw with Crystal Palace on the final day of the season.

Developments
The two-week winter break, in effect since the 2019–20 season, was scrapped starting this season in favour of longer intervals between matches being added for the holiday period between Christmas and New Year's Day, with no matches held on Christmas Eve.
This season was the first to use semi-automated offside technology, as Premier League clubs unanimously agreed to its introduction. The technology was planned to be introduced after one of the autumn international breaks, but was delayed to further test the technology. It was tested in the FA Cup fifth round onwards, after which the Premier League confirmed that the technology would be used in Matchweek 32, on 12 April 2025. The Etihad Stadium was the first to officially use the technology, during Manchester City's match against Crystal Palace.

Teams
Twenty teams competed in the league – the top seventeen teams from the previous season and the three teams promoted from the Championship. The promoted teams were Leicester City, Ipswich Town and Southampton. Leicester City and Southampton returned after a one-year absence, while Ipswich Town returned after a twenty-two-year absence. They replaced Luton Town, Burnley and Sheffield United, who were all relegated to the Championship after just one season in the top flight, the first time since the 1997–98 season that all three promoted teams were relegated after just one season.
